I’d like to start
by telling you an experience
of a brother at Patterson Bethel.
He had recently lost a loved one
—a parent, in fact—
in a horrible accident.
And he desperately needed
to talk with someone
about what he was going through
and how he was feeling.
He was, in a word, unraveling,
and he needed help.
So he called a close friend of his
at Wallkill Bethel
but, unfortunately,
the brother said that at that time
he was unable to talk.
Have you ever found yourself
in a similar situation
—that is, feeling like you’re drowning
and in need of assistance?
The psalmist did.
Please read with me his words
in the 94th Psalm
and note his question.
It’s Psalm 94:16.
The psalmist asked in part:
“Who will rise up for me?”
He goes on to answer his own question
in verses 17 and 19.
He says: “If Jehovah had not been my helper,
“I would soon have perished. . . .
“When anxieties overwhelmed me,
you [Jehovah, you]
comforted and soothed me.”
Well, when you and I send up
such heartfelt prayers to Jehovah,
how does he rise up for us?
And how can we imitate him
by rising up in behalf of others?
Let’s go back in time
and consider an example.
During the days of Israel’s judges,
there lived a wealthy landowner named Boaz.
In obedience to Jehovah’s Law,
he made sure that in his fields
gleanings were left
for the afflicted and poor.
One day,
he observes a woman working in his fields
that he does not recognize.
And soon he learns
that she is the foreigner Ruth,
who up to this point,
he has only heard about.
Well, what does Boaz do?
Notice how he rose up for her
at Ruth 2:8
—Ruth chapter 2,
starting with verse 8:
“Boaz said to Ruth: ‘Listen, my daughter.
“‘Do not go away to glean in another field,
“‘and do not go anywhere else;
“‘stay close by my young women.
“‘Keep your eyes
on the field that they harvest,
“‘and go with them.
“‘I have commanded the young men
not to touch you.
“‘When you are thirsty,
go to the water jars and drink
from what the young men have drawn.’”
Clearly, Boaz protected Ruth.
He brought her under his loving care.
We see him looking out for, shielding,
defending the one in need.
And when Ruth, according to verse 10,
questions his motive
for helping her, a foreigner,
notice a second way he rose up in her behalf
at Ruth 2:11:
“Boaz answered her:
“‘A full report was made to me
“‘of all you have done for your mother-in-law
“‘after the death of your husband
“‘and how you left
your father and your mother
“‘and the land of your relatives
“‘to go to a people
whom you had not known before.
“‘May Jehovah reward you
for what you have done,
“‘and may there be a perfect wage for you
“‘from Jehovah the God of Israel,
“under whose wings
you have come to seek refuge.’
“To this she said:
“‘Let me find favor in your eyes, my lord,
“‘because you have comforted me
“‘and spoken reassuringly
“‘to your servant,
although I’m not even one of your servants.’”
When Boaz spoke reassuringly to Ruth,
the footnote says
that he ‘spoke to her heart.’
How so?
His words were not
just general expressions of praise.
They were specific to Ruth
and to her personal circumstances.
He reassured Ruth that Jehovah loved her
for all the sacrifices she had made
and that she would not be forgotten.
Those comforting, encouraging words of Boaz
convinced Ruth
that everything was going to be OK.
But Boaz did more
than offer reassuring words.
Notice the third way he rose up
at Ruth 4:9.
By taking swift action,
Boaz ensured that the inheritance
of his deceased relative Elimelech
would remain in their family
—chapter 4, verse 9:
“Boaz said to the elders and all the people:
“‘You are witnesses today
“‘that I am buying from Naomi
“‘all that belonged to Elimelech
“‘and all that belonged
to Chilion and Mahlon.
“‘I am also acquiring Ruth the Moabitess,
“‘the wife of Mahlon, as a wife
[for what reason?]
“‘to restore the name
of the dead man
“‘to his inheritance,
“‘so that the name of the dead man
“‘will not be cut off from among his brothers
“‘and from the city gate of his home.
You are witnesses today.’”
Jehovah used Boaz
to rise up for Ruth and Naomi
in three main ways.
One,
he protected those under his care.
Second,
he spoke reassuringly to them.
And third,
he took action.
Seeing the need, he rose up to meet it
—he protected,
he reassured,
he took action.
Well, how about you and me?
Should we not do the same
for those in need of assistance?
And what can result when we do?
Well, before you answer that,
let’s go back to our opening experience.
You see, the very next morning
upon arriving at his work assignment,
our distressed brother received a phone call
from the Patterson lobby.
It was the brother, the friend from Wallkill.
He had gotten up early that morning
and had driven over an hour
from the Wallkill complex
to reach the Patterson complex by 8:00 a.m.
He had arranged
for a private conference room,
and he was there
waiting for that distressed friend
so that he could find out, “How can I help?”
That was 22 years ago.
But I can tell you now,
I have never forgotten
what that friend did for me
when he rose up for me on that day.
By means of the action that he took,
I felt reassured,
I felt protected, and I felt loved.
So the question
for you 24 students—
In fact, the question for all of us
in our hearing audience is this:
What will you do
to rise up for someone in need?
We have every confidence
that each and every one of you
will answer that call when it comes,
saying: “Here I am.
“I will rise up for you.
How can I help?”